graph superset and dictionary types (#226)
Microsoft/api-guidelines: graph/Guidelines.md

# Microsoft Graph REST API Guidelines

## History

| Date        | Version | Notes                                               |
| ----------- | ------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| 2021-Mar-31 | v3.3    | 1st public release of the Graph REST API Guidelines |

## Introduction

The Microsoft Graph REST API guidelines are an extension of the [Microsoft REST API guidelines][1]. Readers of this document are assumed to be also reading the [Microsoft REST API guidelines][1] and be familiar with them. Microsoft Graph guidance is a superset of the Microsoft API guidelines and services should follow them *except* where this document outlines specific differences or exceptions to those guidelines. This document does contain additional Microsoft Graph specific guidance and additional details.

> ## Dictionary types

Author: suggestion from Dan, add a table of content

Author: we should probably duplicate the table of content from the main one and remove the ones that don't apply

> Dictionaries, sometimes called maps, are a collection of name-value pairs. They allow dynamic data sets to be accessed in a systematic maner and are a good compromise between a stricly defined ahead of time structure with all its named properties and between a loosely defined dynamic object (i.e. OData OpenTypes).

Author: this whole subject needs to it's own folder and the main files needs to be an index.

> Dictionaries, sometimes called maps, are a collection of name-value pairs. They allow dynamic data sets to be accessed in a systematic maner and are a good compromise between a stricly defined ahead of time structure with all its named properties and between a loosely defined dynamic object (i.e. OData OpenTypes).

Author: ```suggestion
Dictionaries, sometimes called maps, are a collection of name-value pairs. They allow dynamic data sets to be accessed in a systematic manner and are a good compromise between a strictly defined ahead of time structure with all its named properties and between a loosely defined dynamic object (i.e. OData OpenTypes).
```

More information:

- [OData reference](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/odata-vocabularies/blob/master/vocabularies/Org.OData.Core.V1.md#dictionary)

### When to use dictionary types

Before using a dictionary type in your API definition you should make sure your scenario fits the following criteria:

- The data set is dynamic and you don't know in advance how many entries could be part of that data set.

> - The data values are related to one another semanticaly.

Author: ```suggestion
- The data values are related to one another semantically. i.e.: they must derive from a common type that is not Entity.
```

> - The data values do not need to be individually addressable for CRUD operations.

Reviewer: Why does this restriction exist?  It should be perfectly valid to address an individual element from the dictionary -- i.e., myEntity/AdditionalProperties/EyeColor

Author: Shouldn't you use an entity set then if you want things to be individually addressable?

Reviewer: If I have a schematized collection then yes, I would use an entityset/collection-valued navigation property.

---
In reply to: [601332605](https://github.com/microsoft/api-guidelines/pull/226#discussion_r601332605) [](ancestors = 601332605)

Author: addressed on the call, it is possible and the sentence has been removed. resolving.
